---
title: 'Deploying Serge on GCP: A Step-by-Step Guide'
date: 2023-03-27
permalink: /posts/2023/03/serge-gcp/
tags:
  - gcp
  - serge
  - docker
---

Serge is a chat interface that allows you to run Alpaca models without the need for any API keys. It is entirely self-hosted, fits on 4GB of RAM, and can run on the CPU. In this guide, we'll walk you through the steps required to deploy Serge on Google Cloud Platform (GCP).

Before we get started, make sure you have a GCP account set up and are familiar with the basic concepts of GCP, including creating and managing virtual machines, and setting up firewall rules.

## Step 1: Create a Virtual Machine

The first step in deploying Serge on GCP is to create a virtual machine. We recommend using a machine type with at least 4GB of RAM and a CPU. You can choose any operating system you like, but we recommend using a Linux-based distribution such as Ubuntu or Debian.

To create a virtual machine in GCP, follow these steps:

1.  Go to the GCP Console and navigate to the Compute Engine section.
2.  Click on the "Create Instance" button.
3.  Choose the machine type you want to use, and select the operating system you want to run.
4.  Choose a region and zone for your instance.
5.  Configure any additional settings you need, such as disk space and networking options.
6.  Click on the "Create" button to create your virtual machine.

## Step 2: Install Dependencies

To get started with `serge`, follow these steps:

1. Clone the `serge` repository:
```shell
git clone https://github.com/nsarrazin/serge.git
cd serge
```


2. Start the Docker container:
```shell
docker-compose up -d
```

3. Download the required tokenizers:
```shell
docker-compose exec serge python3 /usr/src/app/api/utils/download.py tokenizer 7B
docker-compose exec serge python3 /usr/src/app/api/utils/download.py tokenizer 13B
docker-compose exec serge python3 /usr/src/app/api/utils/download.py tokenizer 30B
```

## Step 3: Access the API

Once you've installed the dependencies and started the Docker container, you can access the `serge` API by following these steps:

1. Open your web browser and navigate to http://localhost:8008/.

2. You should see the `serge` homepage, which means that the API is up and running!

3. To use the API, make requests to http://localhost:8008/api/.

That's it! You're now ready to use `serge` on GCP. Happy coding!
